---
ID: 19307
post_title: 'Roadkill on Capitol Hill &#8211; The New York Times'
author: Staff
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://whenitson.com/2017/12/10/roadkill-on-capitol-hill-the-new-york-times/
published: true
post_date: 2017-12-10 00:55:44
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div>
        <p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="360" data-total-count="2179" id="story-continues-3">There is rough justice in this initial barrage of j’accuses, before people work out a hierarchy of sins and due process. That may stem from the decades when so many women accusers — from Anita Hill to Bill Clinton’s inamorata and prey — were treated as collateral damage, smeared and pushed aside so that the careers of powerful men could be preserved.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="260" data-total-count="2439">For the first time, as they shudder watching the reputations and livelihoods of so many high-profile men disappear in a blink, many men are paying close attention to women’s stories of being manhandled and minimized, out of self-preservation if not sympathy.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="175" data-total-count="2614">The more potent lesson of the Hill-Thomas hearings (echoed in the 2000 Florida recount) was that Democrats often lose out because Republicans play to win, and they play rough.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="429" data-total-count="3043">So Al Franken, who is good on women’s rights, resigns for wet kisses and random squeezes while President Trump, who is awful on women’s rights, skips right past his braggadocio on groping. Meanwhile, the accused pervert and pedophile Roy Moore, who is a Neanderthal on women’s rights, leads once more in the Senate race in Alabama, buoyed by the president — who believes in nothing but winning — and the soulless R.N.C.</p>

<p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="161" data-total-count="3204">There were many women who wanted to save Franken and who complained to the Furies in the Senate, “Why are we killing our own when we’re getting Roy Moore?”</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="123" data-total-count="3327">And Nancy Pelosi’s first instinct was to protect John Conyers, because, as she said, he was “an icon in our country.”</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="121" data-total-count="3448">But Democrats in Congress want to use Trump and Moore as foils to stamp themselves as the party that sticks up for women.</p><div id="story-ad-2" class="story-ad ad ad-placeholder nocontent robots-nocontent ">
    
Continue reading the main story
</div>
<p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="307" data-total-count="3755" id="story-continues-4">They can no longer justify the way they defended Bill Clinton’s retrograde treatment of women simply because of his progressive policies toward women. Kirsten Gillibrand knew that when she jettisoned her old patrons, the Clintons, in a recent interview with The Times’s podcast “The New Washington.”</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="164" data-total-count="3919">They also are aware that they sound tinny hailing Hillary Clinton as a feminist icon when she participated in smear campaigns against Bill’s girlfriends and prey.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="234" data-total-count="4153">Harvey Weinstein took a couple of vile pages out of the Clinton playbook, hiring private investigators to dig up dirt to discredit accusers and floating suggestions that the victims might be a little bit nutty and a little bit slutty.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="493" data-total-count="4646">When the first Times story revealed Ashley Judd’s harrowing experience with Weinstein, the ogre evoked Hillary’s move with Monica when she told people that Bill was merely “ministering” to a troubled young woman, hinting with faux sympathy that Judd was a troubled woman. “I know Ashley Judd is going through a tough time right now,” Weinstein told Page Six’s Emily Smith. “I read her book in which she talks about being the victim of sexual abuse and depression as a child.”</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="367" data-total-count="5013">The Times reported on Tuesday that Lena Dunham and Tina Brown had cautioned Hillary’s campaign to keep its distance from Weinstein. (“I just want to let you know that Harvey’s a rapist,” Dunham said she warned a Clinton aide.) But Clinton Inc. ignored the advice, preferring to let one of Hillary’s top fund-raisers bask in her aura even as he mauled women.</p>
<p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="465" data-total-count="5478">The muddled message of Hillary campaigning as a feminist while being a key cog in Weinstein’s complicity machine was summed up nicely in a tweet Wednesday by The Times’s Amy Chozick. Running the gamut from Bill to Harvey to Trump to Anthony Weiner, Chozick tweeted: “So Hillary, married to an alleged sexual abuser, took $ from an alleged sexual abuser to help her defeat an alleged sexual abuser and ended up losing partly b/c of an alleged sexual abuser.”</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="52" data-total-count="5530">That’s no way to be the party that protects women.</p>Continue reading the main story
    </div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/09/opinion/sunday/congress-sexual-harassment-dowd.html?partner=rss&#038;emc=rss">Source link </a>