---
ID: 19105
post_title: >
  Myanmar says Bangladesh dragging feet
  over repatriating Rohingya
author: Staff
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://whenitson.com/2017/11/01/myanmar-says-bangladesh-dragging-feet-over-repatriating-rohingya/
published: true
post_date: 2017-11-01 05:25:15
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div data-reactid="31"><p data-reactid="32">YANGON (Reuters) - Myanmar has blamed Bangladesh for delaying the start of a repatriation process for hundreds of thousands of Rohingya Muslim refugees, saying it feared Dhaka could be stalling until it receives multi-million dollars of international aid money. </p><div class="PrimaryAsset_container_2pnvl" data-reactid="33"><div class="Image_container_1tVQo" data-reactid="34"><figure tabindex="-1" data-reactid="35"/><figcaption data-reactid="38"><span class="Image_caption_KoNH1" data-reactid="39">Rohingya refugees sit in a line as they wait to receive permission from the Bangladeshi army to continue their way after crossing the Bangladesh-Myanmar border, at a port in Teknaf, Bangladesh, October 31, 2017. REUTERS/Hannah McKay</span></figcaption></div></div><p data-reactid="40">More than 600,000 Rohingya have fled predominantly Buddhist Myanmar to neighboring Bangladesh since late August to escape ethnic violence that accompanied a brutal military counter-insurgency operation after Rohingya militant attacks on security posts in Myanmar’s Rakhine State.   </p><p data-reactid="41">Zaw Htay, a spokesman for Myanmar’s de facto leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, said Myanmar was ready to begin the repatriation process any time, based along the lines of an agreement that covered returns of Rohingya to Myanmar in the early 1990s. </p><p data-reactid="42">He said Bangladesh had yet to accept those terms. </p><p data-reactid="43">“We are ready to start, but the other side did not accept yet, and the process was delayed. This is the number one fact,” Zaw Htay, Director-General of the Ministry of the State Counsellor’s Office, told journalists on Tuesday. </p><p data-reactid="44">A memorandum of understanding on border liaison posts was signed with Bangladesh Home Minister Asaduzzaman Khan following talks in the Myanmar capital, Naypyitaw, last week, but there was no progress on reviving the old agreement.  </p><div class="Image_container_1tVQo" data-reactid="45"><figure tabindex="-1" data-reactid="46"/><figcaption data-reactid="49"><span class="Image_caption_KoNH1" data-reactid="50">Rohingya refugees stand in the rain as they wait to receive permission from the Bangladeshi army to continue their way after crossing the Bangladesh-Myanmar border, at a port in Teknaf, Bangladesh, October 31, 2017. REUTERS/Hannah McKay</span></figcaption></div><p data-reactid="51">Zaw Htay linked the delay by Bangladesh to the money raised so far by the international community to help build gigantic refugee camps for the Rohingya. </p><p data-reactid="52">“Currently they have got $400 million. Over their receipt of this amount, we are now afraid of delaying the program of deporting the refugees,” he said in comments carried in a front-page article in the state-run Global New Light of Myanmar newspaper on Wednesday. </p><div class="Image_container_1tVQo" data-reactid="53"><figure tabindex="-1" data-reactid="54"/><figcaption data-reactid="57"><span class="Image_caption_KoNH1" data-reactid="58">Rohingya refugee children sit in a line in the rain as they wait to receive permission from the Bangladeshi army to continue their way after crossing the Bangladesh-Myanmar border, at a port in Teknaf, Bangladesh, October 31, 2017. REUTERS/Hannah McKay</span></figcaption></div><p data-reactid="59">“They have got international subsidies. We are now afraid they would have another consideration as to repatriation,” he said. </p><p data-reactid="60">The Bangladesh government issued a statement on Thursday saying that Myanmar had not agreed to 10 points put forward by its minister at last week’s talks, including the full implementation of the recommendations of an Advisory Commission on Rakhine State, chaired by former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan, for a sustainable return of Rohingya. </p><p data-reactid="61">Khan told Bangladesh media on Friday that the two sides were unable to form a joint working group but said it should be set up by the time Foreign Minister Abul Hassan Mahmood Ali goes to Myanmar for talks on Nov. 30. </p><p data-reactid="62">The Myanmar government has said it would accept the Rohingya once it was established that they had lived in Myanmar. </p><p data-reactid="63">Zaw Htay said Myanmar was awaiting a list of Rohingya refugees from the Bangladesh side. </p><div class="Attribution_attribution_o4ojT" data-reactid="64"><p class="Attribution_content_27_rw" data-reactid="65">Reporting by Simon Lewis; Writing by Simon Cameron-Moore; Editing by Paul Tait</p></div><div class="ArticleBody_trustBadgeContainer_1_iEv" data-reactid="66"><span class="ArticleBody_trustBadgeTitle_3xFqc" data-reactid="67">Our Standards:</span><span class="trustBadgeUrl" data-reactid="68">The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.</span></div></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/Reuters/worldNews/~3/26kS7OZOAng/myanmar-says-bangladesh-dragging-feet-over-repatriating-rohingya-idUSKBN1D13K9">Source link </a>