---
ID: 19079
post_title: Russia Inquiry Fails to Unite a Nation
author: Staff
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://whenitson.com/2017/11/01/russia-inquiry-fails-to-unite-a-nation/
published: true
post_date: 2017-11-01 02:07:16
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div>
        <p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="169" data-total-count="1420" id="story-continues-3">This is the case even as the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III bears down in his investigation of the alleged Russian efforts to sway the 2016 presidential election.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="241" data-total-count="1661">As Mr. Mueller and his team home in on people connected to President Trump, including his former campaign manager Paul Manafort, the president and his allies in the conservative media sphere are pointing at the Democrats and Hillary Clinton.</p><figure class="media twitter embedded layout-horizontal-inset"><blockquote class="twitter-tweet">
        <p itemprop="articleBody">
            As the phony Russian Witch Hunt continues, two groups are laughing at this excuse for a lost election taking hold, Democrats and Russians!        </p> —
        Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump)
        July 23, 2017
    </blockquote>
    </figure><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="327" data-total-count="1988">Adding to the problem is the recent behavior of the tech companies, which have not shown the same desire for accountability exhibited by Mr. Ailes and his fellow network chiefs all those years ago. On Tuesday, when Congress called Facebook, Twitter and Google to testify, the platforms sent their lawyers, not their top bosses.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="444" data-total-count="2432">Yes, the lawyers provided some details about how Russian operatives had reached scores of millions of Americans with divisive and misleading messages. But that was only after Facebook’s founder, Mark Zuckerberg, insisted in November that it was a “pretty crazy idea” that Russian operatives had used Facebook to influence the election. (Facebook’s latest tally of Americans who were exposed to Russia’s divisive content: 126 million.)</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="120" data-total-count="2552">The opacity of the tech companies was matched by the efforts of some conservative media outlets to confuse and distract.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="355" data-total-count="2907">In the days leading up to the indictment of Mr. Manafort and his lobbying partner Rick Gates, they saw fit to question Mr. Mueller’s legitimacy. They did so while arguing that the real focus should be on Mrs. Clinton, the Democrats and a political research firm that commissioned the gathering of information on Mr. Trump’s ties to Russia, Fusion GPS.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="218" data-total-count="3125">The counternarrative was particularly pronounced in the outlets controlled by Mr. Murdoch — who has close ties to the president’s family — and his news and entertainment companies, 21st Century Fox and News Corp.</p><div id="story-ad-2" class="story-ad ad ad-placeholder nocontent robots-nocontent ">
    
Continue reading the main story
</div>
<p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="160" data-total-count="3285" id="story-continues-4">On Saturday, the Fox News host Jeanine Pirro called for the jailing of Mrs. Clinton, saying, “It’s time to shut it down, turn the tables and lock her up.”</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="508" data-total-count="3793">She alleged that “the Obamas and the Clintons” had “built the Trump-Russia connection,” pointing to a report in The Washington Post that the Clinton campaign and Democratic National Committee had helped finance research by Fusion GPS, which produced a dossier describing ties between the Trump campaign and the Russian government. She did not mention a report in The New York Times that a conservative media organization, The Free Beacon, hired Fusion GPS to research Mr. Trump and other Republicans.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="229" data-total-count="4022">The most salacious findings in the dossier, based on information collected from sources inside and outside the Kremlin by a Fusion GPS contractor, the former British intelligence officer Christopher Steele, remain uncorroborated.</p>

<p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="330" data-total-count="4352">Also on Saturday, The New York Post columnist Michael Goodwin called for Mr. Mueller’s resignation, citing Fusion GPS as well as Mr. Mueller’s previous job as an F.B.I. director under President Barack Obama, given that, in Mr. Goodwin’s view, so much of the investigative focus must now fall on Mr. Obama’s administration.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="415" data-total-count="4767">Foreshadowing Mr. Goodwin’s dubious argument was an editorial in the Murdoch-owned Wall Street Journal, which declared that Mr. Mueller “lacks the critical distance” to look into the allegation that “Democrats paid for Russians to compile wild allegations about a U.S. presidential candidate.” The editorial also questioned whether the dossier had triggered the F.B.I. inquiry into Mr. Trump’s campaign.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="205" data-total-count="4972">But the investigation began in July last year, James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director at the time, told Congress in March, not long after Fusion GPS’s financing passed from Republican to Democratic sources.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="232" data-total-count="5204">And while skepticism is a virtue in all journalistic endeavors, there is no evidence to support the assertion that the Democrats hired Fusion GPS with the purpose of getting Russians to spread “wild allegations” about Mr. Trump.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="151" data-total-count="5355">As John Sipher, a former Central Intelligence Agency chief of station, pointed out, intelligence tends to come from sources within foreign governments.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="279" data-total-count="5634">“Reaching out to Russians and Americans to try to collect information on what might have happened and then pass that information to sources in good faith, that’s different from trying to conspire with Russia to get stolen emails from the United States,” Mr. Sipher told me.</p><div id="story-ad-3" class="story-ad ad ad-placeholder nocontent robots-nocontent ">
    
Continue reading the main story
</div>
<p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="268" data-total-count="5902" id="story-continues-5">The collective coverage from The Journal editorial page, The New York Post and Fox News — not including the straight-ahead coverage by the likes of Shepard Smith and Bret Baier — was testament to the Murdoch empire’s ability to make its own journalistic weather.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="375" data-total-count="6277">Between the promotion of alternative narratives and the way the social media platforms have been so slow in describing their inadvertent hosting of the Russian effort, there’s a striking lack of national unity over what appears to have been a foreign incursion in an American election. So you have to wonder how the country will ever come together to do something about it.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="251" data-total-count="6528">“There’s this epic lack of consensus, or active dis-census,” said Shawn Powers, the executive director of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy, who has spent years studying what he calls the “geopolitics of information.”</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="274" data-total-count="6802">Mr. Powers was confident that, as the facts come out, the country will find a way to fend off similar attacks. For instance, he said, Facebook, Twitter and Google are adding new policies to combat false information, fake accounts and nefarious foreign political advertising.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="41" data-total-count="6843">But I can’t help thinking back to 2001.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="306" data-total-count="7149">On Tuesday, I called Tom Johnson, the former CNN chairman, who was one of the executives who appeared on Capitol Hill to testify in 2001. He said some colleagues had some qualms appearing before Congress, given the First Amendment implications. But he told me that he had felt it was the right thing to do.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="272" data-total-count="7421">“I still think we have the very highest public responsibility to make sure we get it right and, when we don’t get it right, that we try to determine what went wrong and what we can do about it,” he said. “It really gets down to operating in the public interest.”</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="15" data-total-count="7436">Oh, yeah, that.</p>Continue reading the main story
    </div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/31/business/russia-presidential-election-media.html?partner=rss&#038;emc=rss">Source link </a>