---
ID: 19228
post_title: 'Shocking: Trump Makes the Right Choice With Jerome Powell'
author: Staff
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://whenitson.com/2017/11/02/shocking-trump-makes-the-right-choice-with-jerome-powell/
published: true
post_date: 2017-11-02 17:11:52
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div>
        <p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="163" data-total-count="1383" id="story-continues-3">These purchases “risk currency debasement and inflation, and we do not think they will achieve the Fed’s objective of promoting employment,” the group wrote.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="223" data-total-count="1606">That was wrong in 2010 and is still wrong today. In the intervening seven years, 16 million jobs have been created. Meanwhile, inflation, which was running just over 1 percent when the letter was written, has barely budged.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="375" data-total-count="1981">In a recent study, the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis came to a similar conclusion: Had the central bank followed Mr. Taylor’s prescription, the higher interest rates that he advocates would have resulted in 2.5 million more Americans being out of work today — enough, the Minneapolis bank observed, to fill all 31 National Football League stadiums at the same time.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="183" data-total-count="2164">However, neither is Mr. Powell excessively dovish; he has not dissented from any Fed decision since becoming a governor in May 2012, including the four recent interest rate increases.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="374" data-total-count="2538">Perhaps the biggest question mark swirling around Mr. Powell is that he is not a trained economist. The short reign of the last Federal Reserve chair to lack a deep background in economics, G. William Miller, was disastrous: In 1979, he was outvoted by his own board when he opposed an interest-rate increase that was, in retrospect, badly needed to combat raging inflation.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="225" data-total-count="2763">But Mr. Miller had scant previous experience in Washington or in finance; Mr. Powell, a lawyer and, later, a partner at the investment firm Carlyle Group, has substantial amounts of both, including at the Treasury Department.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="105" data-total-count="2868">That distinguishes him from many other Trump picks with their more modest qualifications for their posts.</p><div id="story-ad-2" class="story-ad ad ad-placeholder nocontent robots-nocontent ">
    
Continue reading the main story
</div>
<p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="239" data-total-count="3107" id="story-continues-4">Mr. Powell is also distinctive for having distanced himself just a few months ago from Mr. Trump’s plan to deregulate the financial sector, calling it a “mixed bag” and noting that “there are some ideas that I would not support.”</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="170" data-total-count="3277">While advocating some regulatory relief, particularly for smaller banks, he has voted in favor of every proposal to tighten bank regulations during his tenure on the Fed.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="232" data-total-count="3509">Interestingly, like the president’s own deregulatory proposals, all of Mr. Trump’s five semifinalists were not only well qualified but were also far removed from the anti-bank fervor of the populist wing of the Republican Party.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="170" data-total-count="3679">In some ways, the choice of Mr. Powell shouldn’t be too surprising. As a highly leveraged real estate developer, Mr. Trump benefited enormously from low interest rates.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="235" data-total-count="3914">While the president’s musings on monetary policy have been characteristically inconsistent and even incoherent, he’s mostly sounded like this: “I do like a low interest rate policy, I must be honest with you,” he said in April.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="287" data-total-count="4201">For his part, Mr. Powell has happily made clear his lack of affection for Mr. Taylor’s signature contribution to the monetary policy debate, a mathematical rule for setting interest rates that, if applied, would cause rates to be about two percentage points higher today than they are.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="169" data-total-count="4370">“I am unable to think of any critical, complex human activity that could be safely reduced to a simple summary equation,” he said at a New York luncheon in February.</p>

<p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="206" data-total-count="4576">Even if economic conditions remain quiescent, the Fed will still face challenges, including how quickly to raise interest rates and, as important, how rapidly to reduce its vast holdings of debt securities.</p><div id="story-ad-3" class="story-ad ad ad-placeholder nocontent robots-nocontent ">
    
Continue reading the main story
</div>
<p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="112" data-total-count="4688" id="story-continues-5">For those and other reasons, I would have preferred that Mr. Trump reappoint the current chairman, Janet Yellen.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="145" data-total-count="4833">But at least, for once, Mr. Trump has rejected both traditional Republican conservatives as well as his populist base and made a sensible choice.</p>Continue reading the main story
    </div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/02/opinion/jerome-powell-trump-federal-reserve.html?partner=rss&#038;emc=rss">Source link </a>