---
ID: 19297
post_title: >
  The Importance of Dumb Mistakes in
  College
author: Staff
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://whenitson.com/2017/12/10/the-importance-of-dumb-mistakes-in-college/
published: true
post_date: 2017-12-10 00:43:08
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div>
        <p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="312" data-total-count="1682" id="story-continues-3">Usually, the outrage is over things they say, for example a campus newspaper editorial that grapples with balancing free speech and appropriate behavior. That’s a quandary that has occupied American legal theorists since the founding of the country. It’s certainly one any young citizen should think through.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="226" data-total-count="1908">But last year, when Wellesley’s student paper ran an editorial wrestling with this same idea — and advocating limits on hate speech — it was widely read and criticized in the media as if it were enormously consequential.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="241" data-total-count="2149">Were the authors’ arguments entirely mature and well reasoned? No. But students deserve the chance to try out ideas. When they do, sometimes they’re going to botch it — sometimes spectacularly. And that’s why we have learning spaces.</p>

<p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="290" data-total-count="2439">Thirty years ago, college students could have tried out radical ideas about limiting free speech in print. The results might have been simplistic or doctrinaire. But readership would have been largely restricted to campus, and the paper would have been in circulation for only a day or two.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="221" data-total-count="2660">In this climate, there is little room for students to experiment and screw up. We seem to expect them to arrive at school fully formed. When they let us down by being just what they are — young humans — we shame them.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="135" data-total-count="2795">This shift in the visibility of college students has changed the work my colleagues and I do as educators, too, and not for the better.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="589" data-total-count="3384">If a Williams student spray-painted “Corporate Deathburgers” on a local building today (not that they ever would), it wouldn’t be hard to imagine someone posting the security footage online. Then the outraged calls and emails and tweets would pour in, demanding that the college disavow Deathburger values. I’d be writing news releases explaining that at Williams we take Deathburgers very seriously. There would be op-eds about the Deathburger problem on American campuses today. And the video would live on: another student weighed down by the detritus of his or her online life.</p><div id="story-ad-2" class="story-ad ad ad-placeholder nocontent robots-nocontent ">
    
Continue reading the main story
</div>
<p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="396" data-total-count="3780" id="story-continues-4">Technology is a lead actor in this drama, but of course, privilege and power influence how the narrative plays out. Some people are given more learning opportunities than others. I might have been a longhair with spray paint when I got arrested, but the arresting officers also marked me as a white University of Michigan student. Had I been someone else, I might have learned a different lesson.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="182" data-total-count="3962">But our response to inequality shouldn’t be to strip the privilege of learning from the lucky few who can already enjoy it. We must expand this universal right to develop and grow.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="327" data-total-count="4289">A commitment to learning isn’t synonymous with freedom from accountability. And it can’t extend into areas like sexual violence or racial hatred. But when it comes to college kids, my worry is that we’ve become unwilling to tolerate innocent mistakes — either that or we have drastically shrunk our vision of innocence.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="286" data-total-count="4575">In my own life I made bad choices that went far beyond spray paint. I flunked out of college and at various points narrowly dodged jail time. When I think back to those mistakes, I’m horrified and chastened. I feel fortunate to have survived, to have had the privilege to make amends.</p>
<p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="336" data-total-count="4911">It would be nice to live in a world in which errors weren’t necessary. Or would it? Miles Davis left behind a quote that I think captures the beauty of a world in which mistakes are natural or even valued: “It’s not the note you play that’s the wrong note — it’s the note you play afterwards that makes it right or wrong.”</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="70" data-total-count="4981">Our children deserve the opportunity to play the music for themselves.</p>Continue reading the main story
    </div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/09/opinion/sunday/dumb-mistakes-college.html?partner=rss&#038;emc=rss">Source link </a>