---
ID: 19195
post_title: Let’s Waste College on the Old
author: Staff
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://whenitson.com/2017/11/01/lets-waste-college-on-the-old/
published: true
post_date: 2017-11-01 11:20:31
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div>
        <p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="499" data-total-count="3028" id="story-continues-3">Instead, the schools that dominate our lists are second-tier regional public universities and unheralded private colleges. The No. 1 four-year institution is Golden Gate University in San Francisco, where 89 percent of students are 25 and older and the median adult student earns almost $75,000 per year 10 years after entering. Golden Gate also does well on measures of adult student friendliness, like how easy it is to transfer credits a student may have completed 10 years ago at another school.</p>

<p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="451" data-total-count="3479">A school like Golden Gate should be a model for how other institutions can adapt to the newer, older face of American college students. The problem for for-profits is that doing the job right just isn’t very profitable, while elite nonprofit colleges face little pressure to recruit adult students. Schools like Stanford and Yale could fill each freshman class exclusively with upper-middle-class 18-year-olds if they wanted (and they basically do).</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="275" data-total-count="3754">Compounding the problem is that the best-known arbiters of college quality, like U.S. News & World Report, reward schools for prestige and selectivity, not for serving the needs of adults and all the other students who actually make up most of America’s college classrooms.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="654" data-total-count="4408">That’s a shame. Elite universities pride themselves on creating diverse learning environments, but by ignoring adult students, they’re missing out on a tremendous opportunity to bring different perspectives into the classroom. Schools like Princeton and the University of Chicago train a disproportionate share of future leaders in government and business. Shouldn’t those groups include students who have, say, worked as a nurse in an I.C.U., or supervised a factory floor, or trained combat troops as an noncommissioned officer? And shouldn’t the 18-year-old future leaders of America interact with and learn from people with those experiences?</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="394" data-total-count="4802">One might object that seats at highly selective universities are so rare and valuable that they should be reserved strictly for the young, whose whole lives are ahead of them. But if elite universities expanded the size of their incoming classes — something few of them have done in decades despite soaring demand — adult students could be accommodated without younger ones being displaced.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="603" data-total-count="5405">In our reporting on adult learners, we found schools around the country — ones with far fewer resources than most elite private universities — that are developing innovative ways to make college work better for the grown-ups they serve. Broward College, in Florida, for instance, now has courses in which students earn not only college credit but industry certifications to guarantee that they are job-ready, while Southern New Hampshire University offers fully online bachelor’s degrees that adults can earn quickly by demonstrating mastery of knowledge and skills that they picked up on the job.</p>
<p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="461" data-total-count="5866">It wouldn’t be hard for prestigious universities to adapt themselves for prospective adult students — and there are plenty — who could compete in and benefit from attending those schools. With their multibillion-dollar endowments, they have the resources they need to expand class sizes, offer credit for prior learning, and aggressively recruit enough qualified adult students to at least match the 30 percent figure of adult college students nationwide.</p><p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="309" data-total-count="6175">Doing so might also help these elite schools diversify racially and geographically, since many standout adult students come from underrepresented urban and rural backgrounds. But before the problem of too few adult students on elite campuses can be fixed, first we have to admit that we have a problem at all.</p>Continue reading the main story
    </div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/31/opinion/adult-learners-college.html?partner=rss&#038;emc=rss">Source link </a>